 For this project,  a list of tv shows available on different streaming platforms were examined.  The goal is to visualize trends seen between different streaming platforms (Netflix, Prime Video, Hulu, and Disney+) based on their show content and ratings for those shows via a dashboard created on Tableau.
 
 The dataset comes from Kaggle where it contains 5,368 observations and ten features (Bhatia, 2021).  From wrangling, the data was reduced to 3,207 observations with seven features: title (unique list of shows), year (year for which that show came out), age (intended age group of show: 7+, 13+, 16+, 18+, and all ages), platform (streaming service the show is found on), occurrence (value count of platform on a tv show; each was one given the unique titles), rating type (Rotten Tomatoes or IMDb of show), and score (show’s score from rating type).  Three things to note: first, in the show’s score rating, Rotten Tomatoes represents the percentage of at least five critic reviews out of 100% (“About Rotten Tomatoes,” n.d.) and the IMDb represents the aggregated votes as a single rating out of 10 (“Ratings FAQ”, n.d.).  Second, the “all ages” in age represents tv show content intended for all ages that are not including the observations from the other age groups recorded in the dataset.  And third, for the year feature, the range was limited to shows that came out between 2000 to 2021.
 
 From the dashboard, overall Hulu reveals to have the most shows across all age groups with it covering the majority of the area in the circle grid plots and having the highest count (1,051) shown in the tooltip of the bar graph.  When specifically looking between each age group, a noticeable trend is that there are barely any platforms which have a large variety of tv shows targeted  towards the 13+ age group, with Disney+ revealing to have no shows for this group.  Prime Video contains TV shows relatively dispersed amongst all age groups, with the exception of the 13+ age group, which shows that this platform caters to almost all ages.  Netflix also shows this same trend, but it contains the highest number of shows intended for older age groups in the 16+ to 18+ range, also seen with Hulu.  Disney+ has the lowest number of shows overall for all age groups and the highest number of those shows are intended for the younger, family audience in the 7+ and all ages range.
            
 In looking at the dot plot, it showcases the total average rating score (Rotten Tomatoes or IMDb) from all shows in the year they came out for a platform.  The year does not represent the year for which the shows were added onto the platform but rather the year that the show was first produced.  So the interpretation from this plot tells which type of tv show year was highly rated, on average, than other tv show years. Furthermore, it tells which platforms contain those highly rated tv show years meaning that a show that came out that year could be better to watch on certain platforms.  For Rotten Tomatoes, all tv show years appear to be evenly spread with the scores being around 60% with the exception of some tv show years.  The majority of highly rated tv show years are on Netflix with the highest average ratings in 2005, 2008 (which overlapped with Disney+), and 2011 through 2015 shows.  Hulu displayed the highest in 2004 and 2009 shows compared to the other platforms for those show years and both Prime and Disney+ have the highest ratings in 2021 shows.  Disney+ reveals to have the most frequent number of tv show years that have ratings lower than the distribution of the other ratings seen in 2016 through 2020.  Overall, it seems that shows in 2004 through 2008 and 2021 have the highest ratings all around.  For IMDb, here the tv show years look to be evenly spread between the 7-7.5 score range with some outliers.  Again, Netflix contains the vast majority of highly rated tv show years as seen in 2000, 2002, and 206 through 2012.  Hulu still has the highest rating in 2004 shows and Disney+ has a higher frequency of low ratings in tv show years than in the Rotten Tomatoes scores.  This could allude to the audience which rates the scores from these different types by having less strict ratings on shows for the Rotten Tomatoes category rather than the IMDb category.
 
 In the bar plot, the ratings represent the total average ratings from all shows and show years.  Here, for both Rotten Tomatoes and IMDb, the ratings seem to be close to each other revealing that each platform contains highly rated tv shows.  But this observation could be misleading if the show count and the circle grid were not visualized because it wouldn’t consider the amount of shows on the platform.  For example, the average rating on Disney+ for all shows and show years appears to be close to Hulu but Hulu has a larger amount of shows on its platform than Disney+ meaning that it wouldn’t be truthful to compare the two and say that Disney+ has similarly rated shows (it could be that from the small amount of shows the majority of them are highly rated).



References
 
About Rotten Tomatoes. (n.d.). Rotten Tomatoes. Retrieved from
    https://www.rottentomatoes.com/about#:~:text=A%20Tomatometer%20score%20is%20calculated,receives%20at%20least%20five%20reviews.
 
Bhatia, R. (2021). TV shows on Netflix, Prime Video, Hulu, and Disney+ [Unpublished raw data]. Kaggle. Retrieved from  https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/ruchi798/tv-shows-on-netflix-prime-video-hulu-and-disney
 
Ratings FAQ. (n.d.). IMDb. Retrieved from https://help.imdb.com/article/imdb/track-movies-tv/ratings-faq/G67Y87TFYYP6TWAV#
